A. WagePayments
     
	Wage Payments provides employee payment solutions via direct deposit and checks. Wage payments prints checks on behalf of employee ,ships to 
employee locations and employee vists to bank and encashs it .Using Direct deposit , pay amount is directly dibursed into employee bank account .
The pay statement is accessible in online portal such as IPAY.

	Wage payments also offers online posting, print and distribution services for Year end tax forms like W-2's, 1099's etc.   	

    List of wage payment products and description:
        Print: Checks and Vouchers are printed by ADP shipped to employees. Employees visits bank and encashes his pay.
        FSDD : FSDD stands for Full Service direct deposit. When an employee chooses FSDD product, employee get his pay directly deposited into his bank account.
        Ipay: Ipay is an online portal where in employee can login and see his pay statement virtually.
        IVR : Using IVR employee gets his pay statement details through voice call to the ADP registered mobile number.

How to onboard a new client to wagepayments / Client Onboarding process

    Thank you for showing interest in our Product Wage 
    Payments. Our sales team will reach out to you to take through the Onboarding process.


B. YearEnd tax forms
    Processing and distributing employee year-end tax documents correctly and on time. ADP supports multiple year end tax forms for both US and Canada.
    In Financial Year 2022-2023 WagePayments has processed 34 million year end tax forms out of which 29M tax forms were printed and 25 million tax forms were posted online(IPAY)
    
    1. W2 form 
        IRS Form W-2, also known as a "Wage and Tax Statement," reports an employee's income from the prior year and how much tax the employer withheld.
        Employers send employees a Form W-2 in January. A copy also goes to the IRS.
        Employees use the information on their Form W-2 to prepare their tax returns (Form 1040).

    2. Guam form
        Guam is one of the US territory and it has it's own governance and their own tax systems.
        There's no separate "state" tax on Guam. Instead, you simply pay the same rate you'd pay for federal taxes to the Guam Department of Revenue and Taxation—no additional local personal income taxes.

    3. Puerto Rico form
        Puerto Rico is one of the US territory and it has it's own governance and their own tax systems.
        Specifically, residents of Puerto Rico pay customs taxes, Federal commodity taxes,
        and all payroll taxes (also known as FICA taxes, which include (a) Social Security, (b) Medicare, and Unemployment taxes).

    4. Virgin Islands form
        Virgin Islands is one of the US territory and it has it's own governance and their own tax systems.
        The US Congress has granted USVI the authority to allow a lowered tax rate to bona fide residents of the USVI.
        Any income related to a USVI business is also taxed at a lower rate. Bona fide USVI residents pay taxes to the Virgin Islands Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) instead of the IRS.

    5. Saipan form
        Saipan is one of the US territory and it has it's own governance and their own tax systems.
        The island also has its own taxation department where taxes are paid to the local government directly. You don't have to deal with the dreaded Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

    6. 1099R form
        Form 1099-R is used to report the distribution of retirement benefits such as pensions and annuities.
        1099-R is used for both U.S. citizen and nonresident alien beneficiaries.
        These payments are treated as private pensions for U.S. Federal income tax purposes

    7. 1099M form
        Form 1099-MISC is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form used to report certain types of miscellaneous compensation, such as rents, prizes, and awards, healthcare payments, and payments to an attorney.

    8. 1099K form
        Form 1099-K is the IRS form that taxpayers receive to report certain payment transactions.
        If you're self-employed or an independent contractor, you report 1099-K income on Schedule C of your federal Form 1040 tax return.

    9. 1099NEC form
        Form 1099-NEC is the new form to report nonemployee compensation—that is, pay from independent contractor jobs (also sometimes referred to as self-employment income).
        Examples of this include freelance work or driving for DoorDash or Uber. Previously, companies reported this income information on Form 1099-MISC (Box 7).

    10. T4 form
        The T4, also known as the Statement of Remuneration Paid, is a slip of information that reveals:
        How much money an employee earned during the entire year; and.
        How much was withheld and remitted to the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) on the employee's behalf.

    11. T4-A form
        The T4A is a Statement of Pension, Retirement, Annuity, and Other Income. If you have received any self-employment income throughout the past year, you report it as a T4A vs. T4.
        While the T4 and T4A slips may seem similar, the T4 includes more detail around various payroll contributions that you have as an employee.

    12. RL-1 form
        The RL-1 slip must be filed by any employer or payer that paid amounts such as salaries, wages, gratuities, tips, fees, scholarships or commissions.
        The information on the RL-1 slip is used by individuals to complete the personal income tax return (TP-1-V).

    13. RL-2 form
        The RL-2 slip is a provincial year-end form that's issued primarily for reporting retirement income, annuity income, and Quebec income tax withheld from those payments.
        Payments reported on the RL-2 are those elements with a secondary classification reporting type of T4A/RL2.

    14. W-2C form
        The W-2C form is a corrected version of a W2 form. When an employee wishes to correct his W2 form, then employee can do so by submitting a W-2C form.

    15. 1095C form
        The form 1095C inclused Information about the health insurance coverage offered to employee by their employer.

C. how many clients are there in wage payments.
      The year end (YE) clients are 2500. The payroll clients are 2200 in number.

D. what all banks do you support for direct deposit

    Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
	JP Morgan Chase
	Key Bank
	US Bank
	Santander Bank
	PNC Bank, NA
	Commerce Bank (Now TD Banknorth NA)
	Bank of The West
	TD Banknorth, N.A.
	BB&T
	FIRST HAWAIIAN BANK
	T D Bank


E. Does wage payments application support any reporting tool?
	Yes we do report to clients via notifications,reports and email alerts.

F. How can a a client can upload a file
        1.log In to Smart Compliance Portal 
        2.Click on Wage Payments menu from side bar.
        3.Navigate to Wage Payments workspace
        4.Click on Upload Files menu on the tiles at top of the Wage Payments Home page
        5. File upload sliders gets opened, select a branch company code and upload 200 byte Test or Production file with payroll information to get the file processed

I. How can we check File status /Wage Payments File processing
        1.log In to Smart Compliance Portal
        2.Click on Wage Payments menu from side bar.
        3. Navigate to Wage Payments workspace
        4.Wage Payments Home page has multiple tabs and default tab displayed will be Wage Payments Files tab
        5. WP files tab displays the list of client uploaded files with their Processing status 
        6. A file once uploaded will initially be in Validating Data status where the payroll information provided by client will be validated
        7. Once the data is validated the status changes to Processing
        8. Once the file is Processed without any issued the Processing will be Completed.

J. How to recover a failed file / Smart Recovery

        1.log In to Smart Compliance Portal
        2.Click on Wage Payments menu from side bar.
        3. Navigate to Wage Payments workspace.
        4. Select a file which is in Errors status.
        5. Clieck on "Remove Errors and Process Payroll" button.
        6. Click on "Process Payroll with Update" button on the Process Payroll with Update conformation pop up.
        7. File will be smart recovered successfully.

K. How to Stop a Check
        1.log In to Smart Compliance Portal
        2.Click on Wage Payments menu from side bar.
        3. Navigate to Wage Payments workspace
        4. Click on Management and Reversals tile 
        5. Please provide manadatory information like Check number or Check number range , Paydate or Paydate range , amount and other details to get the list of checks.
        6. Please select an Open or Issued check to stop the payment and click on Request Stop check button
        7. Stop Check slider gets opened and please accept the terms and conditions and Submit a request to stop a check
        8. Your check will be stopped and You will be provided with a Transaction Number for reference once the request is submitted.

L. How to Stop a FSDD payment or Direct Deposit reversal
        1. log In to Smart Compliance Portal
        2. Click on Wage Payments menu from side bar.
        3. Navigate to Wage Payments workspace
        4. Click on Management and Reversals tile 
        5. Click on Durect Deposits tab and provide manadatory information like Account number or Employee File number, Paydate or Paydate range , amount and other details to get the list of FSDD payments.
        6. Please select an Open, Pending or Hold transactions to stop the payment and click on Reverse Direct Deposit reversal button.
        7. Stop Payment slider gets opened and please accept the terms and conditions and Submit a request to reverse a payment
        8. Your payment will be stopped and You will be provided with a Transaction Number for reference once the request is submitted.

M. How to Copy a check / request a duplicate copy of a Check
        1. log In to Smart Compliance Portal
        2. Click on Wage Payments menu from side bar.
        3. Navigate to Wage Payments workspace
        4. Click on Management and Reversals tile 
        5. Please provide manadatory information like Check number or Check number range , Paydate or Paydate range , amount and other details to get the list of checks.
        6. Please select a Paid check to request a duplicate copy and click on Request Stop check button
        7. Copy Check slider gets opened and enter mandatory personal information like name, email address or mailing address  and Submit a request to Copy a check
        8. Your check will be Copied and You will be provided with a Transaction Number for reference once the request is submitted.


G. What are the pay frequencies wage payments support?

	wage payments supports Hourly,Daily,Weekly,Biweekly and Monthly wages payments

H. Payment methods that are supported by Wage Payments
    ACH transfers, Checks, Direct Deposits, Vouchers

N. How much do we cost for Wage Payments products? 
	ADP Check - $0.35 per transaction and $0.90 per printed page
    Full Service direct deposit (FSDD) - $0.35 per transaction and $0.90 per printed page
    IPAY - $0.40 per statement
    This cost varies if Client chooses multiple products. Please contact Wage Payments service executives for more information
	
        